We talked about useState.
The more other built-in way
to manage state in a React
application is useReducer.
And as I alluded to several times,
useState is just an abstraction
of a useReducer.
So we can argue that there is really
one way, I'm not here to argue today.
But how is that different?
And I will tell you a story
before we get into this,
which is originally I was gonna start
a new app, and then I was gonna let you
implement it in the counter
that we were working on before.
And I think I alluded to this
earlier when I was just building out
the example first and
with a bunch of any types, and
then I was like, watch me fix it, right,
or setting up for you to go fix it.
And I was trying to test to make sure it
actually worked before you fix the types.
I was like why doesn't this work?
And I was throwing console logs in places.
And I was like, what's even going on?
And then I realized that
I had made a small,
little mistake that wouldn't have
happened if I was using TypeScript.
And thereby realize that I'll use that
as the example and then I'll kind of
send you on the way with the original
one I was gonna show in a brand new app,
which it'd be fun for everyone involved.
But let's do the simplest version first.
So useReducer, if you've ever used
Redux or even seen it, it's the same.
usereducer is like Redux light,
light, light, right?
So no middleware, no dev tools,
not all the batteries kind of included,
particularly Redux toolkit now existing.
It's not necessarily, but
it's a nice, easy light version,
I will a lot of times reach for it.
If I have to put one
useState in a component,
fine, two, okay, five, no.
At that point, it's a great way to say
a thing happened, especially if I have
to coordinate, changing this should
then change this other thing.
I will at that point say, this thing
happened, right, and have some logic that
is easily testable to make sure that
the end result comes out, right?
And so when things get a little
bit more complicated for you,
then useState makes it easy,
then I'll go grab useReducer.
Now talking to some people during the
break, I know that not everyone has used
this, so let's look at
the world's simplest version.
And so the world's simplest version, which
I will pull in to the app in a second,
is basically what useState is under
the hood, right, simplified a little bit.
But the way to think about a reducer,
it is simply a JavaScript function, right,
that takes two arguments, the current
state of the world, a thing that happened.
And it takes those things
into the function, and
it returns the new state of the world,
right?
Now there's a lot of things that we do,
but the world's simplest version is,
this current state of the world
is that there's a count.
The new thing that happened is
that now there's a new number.
The thing that comes out
is the new number, right?
Update the state accordingly,
and then the hook's like,
figure all that with the underlying
link list and fun stuff like that.
So this version of useReducer is
effectively an analog to setState,
in so much that let's just drop it in and
we'll kinda just see it in action.
So we got pull in, yes.
>> If you are using Redux,
is it still worth using useReducer?
>> So my general rule, that's a great
question, is that I try to think about
state in my application in
a number of different ways, right?
So for instance,
there's the true data application state,
right, which is what blog posts or
whatever,
what are the things that I
have loaded in my application?
What is the editing state?
Then there's a bunch of state that I think
about, either view layer state or I call
ephemeral state, which is kinda like, hey,
is this accordion open or close, right?
Which I do not need to store in a giant
data structure that then causes re-renders
throughout my entire app that I then
need to cache and memorize, right?
And so there's a world where
I am using Redux for my big,
real application state of, yeah,
what models do I have loaded up for
whatever we're building, right?
Got that open Redux but stuff of like,
is this form valid, right?
That's really just on that
view layer thing, right?
And I might still use a useReducer for
that, cuz checking to see if all
the values in the form,
that's probably 7, 8, 10, 15 new states.
Yeah, that's still not necessarily
worth keeping that form that
hasn't been saved in the store, right?
So I will still use it in that kinda
middle ground of not necessarily worthy of
being in the Redux store, getting a little
ridiculous to do it in useState, right?
But this one is ridiculous because,
effectively, it's useState but
I had to write my own
implementation of useState first.
But it still kinda make the point
about TypeScript first, and
then we'll then do it to a more
real example with useReducer.
So this just being a JavaScript function,
right, in fact,
if I wanted to, unlike useState,
you take this, I mean,
you could do it as function
callbacks in useState as well.
This is just a JavaScript function,
it can go in a file somewhere else.
I can write up a bunch of unit tests,
pass a bunch of stuff in,
look at the return values,
so on and so forth, right?
And as you can see, it automatically
knows where to return your number.
I could be explicit about
that if I wanted to, right?
And that way, I can't accidentally
return the wrong thing.
And so we say useReducer,
we pass it this function that
has a return value of a number, and
that means it's a number, right?
And yeah, just to kinda show you the way
this works under the hood, I don't know,
ReducerState, Michael,
you have to remind me to delete this.
So we have this and we say,
All right, return type is a utility
type we'll see in a little bit, and
then we're grabbing the type
of this reducer function.
So type of reducer, as you can see,
takes two numbers, returns a number.
We're just getting the return
type of that type, and so
ReducerState is just a number, right?
And so it is using that mechanism
to figure out what count should be.
And then setCount is
react.dispatch number.
So someone asked in the chat earlier,
is there an easier way than
react.dispatch and then open
angle brackets react.setState and
then number, like this, right,
especially if you pull in dispatch?
It was pulled in from React.
I wonder if it automatically updates here.
Yeah, it's just Dispatch<number> now,
right?
So that's a lot easier to pass through
than all that other ceremony with
setState and all that other things.
So this is an easy type to just call out,
and
we'll actually do that in a little
bit as well in the secondary app.
And so it is simpler to pass around.
Yeah, you have to hold its
hand a little bit more, but
especially when the complexity of,
I have multiple values.
The next app that we're gonna
build is a color palette.
So you've got hex codes and
RGB values and you can change the RGB and
it will change the hex code, right?
There's enough of wiring
all that together.
But there's a super powerful pattern,
Redux aside,
of the state of the world,
a thing happened.
Figure it out inside this function and
let me know what happens, right?
Whether you use Redux,
whether you use useReducer, the pattern
itself also just works when you're
writing just regular JavaScript
functionality, and it's super powerful.
And so we've got that in place.
And so that is, we can see that basically
all the types in React behave like they
did with setState, which is not surprising
given the fact that I've repeatedly
mentioned that setState is
an abstraction over useReducer, so
we shouldn't be totally surprised.
But that is some of
the mechanism of how it works.
Now, this is a ridiculous reducer.
That said, there are versions of this
that I have written before, right?
I could, for instance, have a useState for
firstName, a useState for lastName.
And then when both of those change,
listen to the other one, or
I can have a reducer that has an object
that has firstName and lastName,
takes them both and
spits out a fullName, right?
Stuff along those lines where
either parcel is changed, right?
The moment you are deriving state,
reducers aren't bad.
Okay, so as you can see,
this all kinda works.
setCount works as expected, if you
don't believe me, we can try it out.
At this point, it actually should
take a number and returns void, cool.